running orbit chain doc (#806)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/node-running/how-tos/running-an-orbit-node.mdx

---

> title: 'How to run an orbit node'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'How to run a full node for an Orbit chain'
```
Suggestion to keep it consistent with the rest of titles

description: Learn how to run an Arbitrum orbit node on your local machine.
sme: Mehdi Salehi

> sidebar_label: Run an orbit node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Run a full node (Orbit)
```

sidebar_position: 12
content-type: how-to
---

> This guide provides a step-by-step process for running an Orbit node on your local machine. To initiate an Orbit node, the `"chain info"` json string of the orbit chain, which includes crucial configurations required for the Orbit chain's operation. The `"chain info"` json string should be provided by the orbit chain owner, and the node runner can consume it to run the node for that specific orbit chain. An example of the "chain info" json string is available in this section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provides a step-by-step process for running a node for an Orbit chain on your local machine. To initiate an Orbit node, the `"chain info"` json string of the Orbit chain, which includes crucial configurations required for the Orbit chain's operation. The `"chain info"` json string should be provided by the Orbit chain owner, and the node runner can consume it to run the node for that specific Orbit chain. An example of the "chain info" json string is available in this section. 
```

I think we should call them "nodes for an Orbit chain" instead of "Orbit node", because the reader might think that it's a different type of node (than a full node).

In "in this section", can you include a link to that section?

### Minimum hardware configuration

> - Followings specify the minimum hardware configuration required to setup a Nitro full node (not archival):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Followings specify the minimum hardware configuration required to setup your node:
```

Not sure though, but maybe simplify like this.

  - RAM: 8-16 GB
  - CPU: 2-4 core CPU (For AWS: t3 xLarge)

>   - Storage: It depends on the orbit chain and its traffic during the time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Storage: It depends on the Orbit chain and its traffic during the time. 
```

### Prerequisites

- Latest Docker Image: <code>@latestNitroNodeImage@</code>

### Required parameters

- Parent chain RPC URL
  - Use the parameter `--parent-chain.connection.url=<Parent chain RPC URL>`
  - It must provide a standard RPC endpoint for an EVM node, whether self-hosted or obtained from a node service provider
    - Would be set to appropriate Arbitrum One, Arbitrum Nova, or Arbitrum Sepolia RPC URL

>   - Note: [Arbitrum RPC endpoints](/node-running/node-providers.mdx/#rpc-endpoints) RPCs rate limit connections, So you will need to run a local node for the parent chain or rely on third party RPC providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Note: [Arbitrum RPC endpoints](/node-running/node-providers.mdx/#rpc-endpoints) rate limit connections, So you will need to run a local node for the parent chain or rely on third-party RPC providers
```

> - L3 orbit chain info and chain name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- L3 Orbit chain info and chain name
```

  - Providing the flag --chain.info-json=<Orbit Chain's chain info> is mandatory. The chain info json string contains vital information about the Orbit chain, which is necessary for the node to commence operations. An example of the chain info json string is available in the subsequent sections.
  - `--chain.name=<My Arbitrum L3 Chain>` must be provided, and it must match the chain name that is used in `--chain.info-json` content.

>   - For an Anytrust chain, it is essential to provide `--node.data-availability.enable`.

Reviewer: Do full nodes need this too?

Author: Yeah all of them needs this now, but in future version, Nitro will send an update so that just having info for the chain would be enough

### Important ports

- RPC: `8547`
- Sequencer Feed: `9642`
- WebSocket: `8548`
  - WS port `8548` needs extra args to be opened. Please use these flags:
    - --ws.port=8548
    - --ws.addr=0.0.0.0
    - --ws.origins=\*

### Putting it all together

- When running docker image, an external volume should be mounted to persist the database across restarts. The mount point inside the docker image should be `/home/user/.arbitrum`

> - Here is an example of how to run orbit-node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Here is an example of how to run a node for an Orbit chain:
```

  - Note that is important that `/some/local/dir/arbitrum` already exists, otherwise the directory might be created with `root` as owner, and the docker container won't be able to write to it

  ```shell
  docker run --rm -it  -v /some/local/dir/arbitrum:/home/user/.arbitrum -p 0.0.0.0:8547:8547 -p 0.0.0.0:8548:8548 @latestNitroNodeImage@ --parent-chain.connection.url=<Parent chain RPC URL> --chain.id=<L3ChainId> --chain.name=<My Arbitrum L3 Chain> --http.api=net,web3,eth,debug --http.corsdomain=* --http.addr=0.0.0.0 --http.vhosts=* --chain.info-json=<Orbit Chain's chain info>
 

>   ```

Reviewer 2: How about we also introduce how to edit and use the `nodeconfig.json` file here? Because we introduce to use that at `orbit-setu-script`

content-type: how-to
---

> This guide provides a step-by-step process for running an Orbit node on your local machine. To initiate an Orbit node, the `"chain info"` json string of the orbit chain, which includes crucial configurations required for the Orbit chain's operation. `"chain info"` json string should be provided by the orbit chain owner, and the node runner can consume it to run the node for that specific orbit chain. An example of the "chain info" json string is available in this section. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide provides a step-by-step process for running an Orbit node on your local machine. To initiate an Orbit node, the `"chain info"` json string of the orbit chain, which includes crucial configurations required for the Orbit chain's operation. The `"chain info"` json string should be provided by the orbit chain owner, and the node runner can consume it to run the node for that specific orbit chain. An example of the "chain info" json string is available in this section. 
```
